
[Why you might want to use hardware-triggering to acquire image series is nicely summarized by MM's developers in the Journal of Biological Methods (Edelstein et al. 2014). The principle of hardware-based synchronization is also explained:](https://github.com/nimwegenLab/MiM_NikonTi/blob/master/Docs/NikonTi_hardware_triggering.md)

> A central capability of μManager is Multi-Dimensional Acquisition (MDA), which allows image sets to be acquired at multiple XY positions, Z slices, time points, and channels. Conventionally, MDA is accomplished by sending commands from the computer to the devices each time a change (in, e.g., stage position or illumination) is required. This communication can add unnecessary latency (up to 100 ms) between image frames. In the case of a time series, the timing to issue commands to the devices and camera is controlled by the application software, a method that cannot consistently produce accurate timings on a standard desktop operating system. The resulting timing jitter can be on the order of tens of milliseconds, unacceptable for fast time series.
> 
> Much faster and accurately timed operation is possible with most cameras (when acquiring a preset sequence of frames) as well as many other devices (when executing a pre-programmed sequence of commands). μManager’s built-in hardware synchronization support can take advantage of these capabilities to perform fast MDA, such as a fast Z stack with a piezo stage or fast multi-channel imaging with lasers shuttered by acousto-optical tunable filters (AOTFs). From the microscope user’s perspective, this is done seamlessly, such that μManager’s MDA engine automatically delegates control to hardware when possible.
> 
> Synchronization between the camera and the other devices is achieved by routing TTL (Transistor-Transistor Logic) pulses over signal cables. In the configuration currently supported by μManager, the camera, operated in sequence acquisition mode, acts as the timing-generating device, sending out TTL pulses at each exposure. The pulses are sent (typically via BNC cable) to a sequencing device, which may be standalone or built into a stage or illumination controller. Upon each pulse, the sequencing device advances the hardware to the correct state for the next exposure, based on a sequence of positions or illumination settings uploaded ahead of time. [[References#^c6fb5a]]


